Rejuvenated accretors have less bound envelopes:
Impact of Roche lobe overflow on subsequent common envelope events
M. Renzo(1_, E. Zapartas(2), S. Justham(3,4,5) K. Breivik(1) M. Lau(6,7,1) R. Farmer,5 M. Cantiello,1 and
B. D. Metzger(8,1)

1Center for Computational Astrophysics, Flatiron Institute, New York, NY 10010, USA
2IAASARS, National Observatory of Athens, Vas. Pavlou and I. Metaxa, Penteli, 15236, Greece
3School of Astronomy and Space Science, University of the Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100012, PR China
4Anton Pannekoek Institute of Astronomy and GRAPPA, University of Amsterdam, Science Park 904, 1098 XH Amsterdam, The
Netherlands
5Max-Planck-Institut für Astrophysik, Karl-Schwarzschild-Straße 1, 85741 Garching, Germany
6School of Physics and Astronomy, Monash University, Clayton, Victoria 3800, Australia
7OzGrav: The ARC Centre of Excellence for Gravitational Wave Discovery, Australia
8Columbia Astrophysics Laboratory, Columbia University, New York, New York 10027, USA

The ultimate fates of compact binaries is dependent on the presence of
common envelope (CE) evolution. CE describes a dynamically unstable
mass transfer process that occurs once the radius of an accretor in a
prior stable Roche-lobe overflow (RLOF) process expands. Note that the
donor star during RLOF should have already undergone
core-collapse. During CE, the binary separation decreases
substantially and allows for a potential merger to occur on a
timescale conducive to our observations.

During the initial RLOF process, the increased mass of the accretor
drives an increase in the interior temperature of the star (per the
Virial Theorem). This effect steepens the mixing region between the
core and envelope and remixes the convective core, replenishing the
core's supply of hydrogen and allowing the accretor to continue its
main sequence evolution for longer. The effects of this core
rejuvenation may determine if the CE ejection succeeds or fails.

This paper probes the impact of case B (post-MS donor) RLOF on the
accretor and finds the presence of large blue-loops (check Figure 1)
that are not expected in single stars. Additionally, accretors exhibit
a lower binding energy in comparison to single stars, implying CEs
that are easier to eject, which results in wider binaries post-CE. The
physics and results of CE are left to other papers. Additionally,
further research is needed to determine if very massive accretors (M >
40 M_sun also rejuvenate.

Side note 1: It's me! I'm further research! I happily conclude that
(according to my models), very massive accretors DO rejuvenate their
cores. That paper will be out in 2026, but you may or may not be able
to find my Honors Thesis about it somewhere.

Side note 2: A Mathieu Mathieu
