Optically thick winds of very massive stars
suppress intermediate-mass black hole formation
Stefano Torniamenti(1,2), Michela Mapelli(2,3,4,5), Lumen Boco(2),
Filippo Simonato(4,6,7), Giuliano Iorio(8) , Erika Korb(4,2)
1Max-Planck-Institut für Astronomie, Königstuhl 17, 69117, Heidelberg, Germany
2Universität Heidelberg, Zentrum für Astronomie (ZAH), Institut für Theoretische Astrophysik, Albert Ueberle Str. 2, 69120,
Heidelberg, Germany
3Universität Heidelberg, Interdiszipliäres Zentrum für Wissenschaftliches Rechnen, D-69120 Heidelberg, Germany
4Dipartimento di Fisica e Astronomia Galileo Galilei, Università di Padova, Vicolo dell’Osservatorio 3, I–35122 Padova, Italy
5INFN, Sezione di Padova, Via Marzolo 8, I–35131 Padova, Italy
6Gran Sasso Science Institute (GSSI), Viale Francesco Crispi 7, 67100 L’Aquila, Italy
7INFN, Laboratori Nazionali del Gran Sasso, 67100 Assergi, Italy
8Departament de Física Quàntica i Astrofísica, Institut de Ciències del Cosmos, Universitat de Barcelona, Martí i Franquès 1,
E-08028 Barcelona, Spain

For many years, astronomers had discovered many stellar-mass BHs and
many SMBHs, but were missing BH in the mass range between the
two. These intermediate-mass black holes (IMBHs) have only recently
been evidenced through GWs. One candidate for the source of (IMBHs)
are very massive stars (VMSs) of mass >100 M_sun. The potency of VMSs
in creating IMBHs is highly dependent on the mass loss regime it
experiences. At solar metallicity, VMSs lose a large fraction of their
mass, so candidates are expected with metallicities (Z ≲ 0.014).

Note that this is very closely related with the paper I wrote about 2
days ago. This is purely a coincidence — this paper came out on arXiv
yesterday. However, this is quite nice, as it demonstrates the
importance of that paper. Anyway...

This paper finds that IMBHs produced from VMSs can only be observed
under strict metallicity conditions that bar conditions in the LMC and
even the SMC. The low Z of the SMC may allow for IMBHs to form through
stellar collisions, but only under the extremely generous assumption
that the mass of these collisions are fully conserved. Even under such
optimistic conditions, the predictions offered using these winds are
1% the previous predictions made using less aggressive winds.

Special note: I've had a beer with Stefano, and he is an Oasis
fan. What a bum lmao
